docs: guides section (#717)
software-mansion/react-native-enriched: docs/docs/guides/emojis.mdx

---

> sidebar_position: 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_position: 2
```

  onChangeMention={({ text }) => setQuery(text)}
  onEndMention={() => setOpen(false)}
  // ...
/>;

const q = query.replace(/:$/, '').toLowerCase();
const suggestions = EMOJIS.filter(e => e.shortcode.startsWith(q));
```

When the user picks, `setMention` inserts the glyph as the mention's display
text. The `data-shortcode` makes a handy attribute if you ever need to reconstruct it:

```tsx
const pick = (emoji) => {
  ref.current?.setMention(':', emoji.char, {
    'data-shortcode': emoji.shortcode,
  });
};
```

Since the emoji glyph is the whole mention, drop the usual highlight so it
reads as plain text:

```tsx
const htmlStyle = {
  mention: {
    ':': {
      color: '#232736',
      backgroundColor: 'transparent',
      textDecorationLine: 'none',
    },
  },
};
```

## Try it out

Type `:` followed by a name - `:fire`, `:heart` - then tap a suggestion. The shortcode is replaced with a single emoji that you can place anywhere in the text.

<InteractiveExample src={EmojiEditorSrc} component={EmojiEditor} />

:::info

If you want to see the whole code used to build this example, you can find it by switching the tab from `Preview` to `Code`.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Same here, I think it's redundant

same flow.

## A shortcode table

Map each shortcode to the glyph it inserts:

```tsx
const EMOJIS = [
  { shortcode: 'smile', char: '😄' },
  { shortcode: 'heart', char: '❤️' },
  { shortcode: 'fire', char: '🔥' },
  { shortcode: 'rocket', char: '🚀' },
];
```

## Wiring it up

Register `:` as the only indicator and filter the table with the text typed
after it. Because people habitually close the shortcode (`:smile:`), strip a
trailing colon before matching:

```tsx
<EnrichedTextInput
  mentionIndicators={[':']}
  onStartMention={() => setOpen(true)}
  onChangeMention={({ text }) => setQuery(text)}
  onEndMention={() => setOpen(false)}
  // ...
/>;

const q = query.replace(/:$/, '').toLowerCase();
const suggestions = EMOJIS.filter(e => e.shortcode.startsWith(q));
```

When the user picks, `setMention` inserts the glyph as the mention's display
text. The `data-shortcode` makes a handy attribute if you ever need to reconstruct it:

```tsx
const pick = (emoji) => {
  ref.current?.setMention(':', emoji.char, {
    'data-shortcode': emoji.shortcode,
  });
};
```

Since the emoji glyph _is_ the whole mention, drop the usual highlight so it

> reads as plain text:

Reviewer: Is the italic formatting on `is` intentional? It doesn't look quite right.

<img width="667" height="35" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8f5912f-a648-4b73-80e0-a686918f0cd3" />

```tsx
const htmlStyle = {
  mention: {
    ':': {
      color: '#232736',
      backgroundColor: 'transparent',
      textDecorationLine: 'none',
    },
  },
};
```

:::info

If you want to see the whole code used to build this example, you can find it below by switching the tab from `Preview` to `Code`.

> :::

Reviewer: I think this info should come after the `InteractiveExample`, so the user sees the completed example first. The same applies to the other guides.

## Try it out

Type `:` followed by a name - `:fire`, `:heart` - then tap a suggestion. The

> shortcode collapses into a single emoji you can place anywhere in the text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type `:` followed by a name - `:fire`, `:heart` - then tap a suggestion. The shortcode is replaced with a single emoji that you can place anywhere in the text.
```

`is replaced with` sounds more natural to me?
